一、簡答題:(100%)

(一) Computer Programming Techniques. (25%)

1. Implement a function unsigned int myAvg(unsigned int x, unsigned int y) to return the truncated average of two given unsigned integers x and y. Note that the truncated average discards all values less than 1, so myavg(3, 8) should return 5. Your code must consider the potential overflows and should be as efficient as possible. (10%)

2. Implement a function bool isPowerof2(unsigned int x) to determine whether a given unsigned integer x is a power of 2. You should implement the function from scratch without using STL. or other libraries. Your code should be as efficient as possible, in terms of both the running time and memory space usage. (15%)

(二) Data Structures: Stack. (15%)

1. Please use C or C++ programming language to implement an array-based stack, which accepts up to N elements. Each element is an unsigned integer. You should implement the stack from scratch, without using STL or other libraries. (5%)

2. Based on the answer of the previous problem, extend your code so that your stack can support an extra operation int getMax(), which returns the largest element in the stack without removing it. (10%)

(三) Data Structures: Search Tree. (25%)

1. As compared to binary search tree (BST) and red-black tree, explain the major design ideas of B-tree. (5%)

2. Define and explain the five red-black properties. (10%) 

3. Prove that each 2-3-4 tree can be converted to an equivalent red-black tree, and vice versa. (10%)

(四) Computer Organization and Operating Systems. (35%)

1. Define Amdahl's law and its implications on the performance optimization of computer systems. (5%)

2. Define and differentiate the two terms: parallelism and concurrency. Why are they important for the performance of modern computers? (5%)

3. Explain the pipelining technique in CPU design. (5%)

4. Explain the non-local jumps in C language. Why are they needed? (5%)

5. Explain how signals occur and how they are handled. (10%)

6. What is the signal mask, and why is it needed? (5%)